# 1.2 - Stakeholders
> *Who is going to be invested in the project?*

My target audience has quite a wide range of ages, given that the app can be used by anyone in a work/ school environment. Therefore the broad range in ages would be roughly `16-66` years (teenage through to retirement). Given this large range, the UI/ UX should be designed in such a way that feels intuitive to as many of these ages as possible; this suggests that a simple and easy to follow solution would be optimal in supporting the most users possible.

However, the main userbase is likely to be a smaller range of `~16-25`, mainly due to the fact that younger people are often times more prone to the issue of lack of motivation/ drive without enough stimulus and interest, which the project aims to solve. Furthermore, it's more likely that school/ college/ university-aged people (students) will be taking the most extensive notes.

*This is not to exclude the older ages from the user demographic*, but rather serves as a more indicator as to who I should tailor my design to, as the range of 16-66 may be too vague, and mean I don't have a clear idea of how the product should run & feel. Therefore I'm going to focus mainly on this narrowed-down range of `16-25` when designing and receiving feedback, though I'm still always going to keep the older users in mind when making decisions.

Additionally, the current planned target users can use any operating system that supports embedded chromium, i.e any of the 3 main desktop OSs; MacOS, Windows and Linux. Currently, this means the app will be limited to desktop/ laptop users, though could expand to support mobile platforms in the future if I have enough time.

As of right now, my only stakemholder is another student, James Clark, 17, who fits the target demographic well, taking notes-heavy subjects and fitting within the specified age range.

See next: [Computational Methods](1.3-computational_methods.md)
