# Computational Requirements
>*What does any potential user need in terms of hardware + software?*

In order to avoid making all UI components from scratch, it is common practice to use frameworks. I'll likely use a framework such as [React.js](https://react.dev/), given how widely used it is amongst developers, making it reliable, easy to find help for and that it contains a wide range of features with a large community contributing to it.

## Electron

Furthermore, one of the most widely used means to build a cross-platform desktop app from one codebase is to [embed chromium](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chromium_Embedded_Framework). One of the most popular ways developers do this is through [Electron](https://www.electronjs.org/). This allows the developer to essentially build the app like they would a website, using javascript as both the front & back end. Electron dominates the market compared to other frameworks - this means that:

- There is loads of support/ guides
- I can inspect many other open source Electron projects to gain a better understanding for it
- Using javascript as both the front + back end means I don't have to spend as much time learning and switching between different programming languages

**However**, there are also drawbacks. Electron produces applications very large in size, due to all the packages, libraries and binaries it bundles with them. This means the user has to have a rwelatively large amount of available disk space, and also the app may feel quite slow/ unresponsive, and not like a native application would.

## Tauri

[Tauri](https://tauri.app/) is an alternative framework I mentioned in [part 1.3](1.3-computational_methods.md). It uses the same front end structure/ languages, **but the back end is built in rust**. This brings with it its own benefits and drawbacks.

### Speed/ size

There are two main advantages in using Tauri in terms is speed and size. Rust is famously incredibly fast performing campared to most, if not all other programming languages. This would potentially make the app significantly faster, and maybe even make it feel native to the OS it's running on, and even the compiled binaries will be smaller in size. Furthermore, due to the way Tauri's designed, it does not need to ship loads of extra packages with the build like Electron - it 'uses the OS's native web renderer, the size of a Tauri app can be less than 600KB' - this is a significant win over Electron.

### Learning curve

One main downside to Tauri is also with the rust back end. Rust is notoriously difficult to learn and understand, and could make this project much harder/ unrealistic in the time frame. There are modules provided that minimise writing any rust, though I would be confined to only using these existing functions/ libraries if I didn't learn rust. Additionally Tauri has a very small platform compared to Electron, and few tutorials/ guides currently exist, making the task even harder.

For these reasons, I am going to experiment with **both frameworks** and see how I find using either one.

*None of the above would be a requirement **for the user**, this will all be packaged and downloaded together as part of the app.*

Given that Electron would likely be the easier of the two, I'll assume I use Electron as the framework I use to build the app, so the following are the minimum specifications for anyone wanting to use the program (Tauri would be similar, though less RAM would be needed):

## OS Requirements

### Windows

- Windows 7 & later supported, older operating systems are not.
- x86 and amd64 (x64) binaries are provided for Windows - the ARM version of Windows is not supported for now.

### Mac

- Electron supports macOS 10.10 (Yosemite) onwards.
- Only 64bit binaries are provided for macOS.

### Linux

- The ia32 and x64 binaries of Electron are built on Ubuntu 12.04, the arm binary is built against ARM v7 with hard-float ABI and NEON for Debian Wheezy.
- Only Ubuntu 12.04 is guaranteed to work as it depends on if the distribution has the libraries Electron uses, but these platforms are also verified to run the prebuilt binaries:

  - Ubuntu 12.04 onwards
  - Fedora 21
  - Debian 8

## For Developers:

- Node/ npm is required to run/ install/ manage any javascript projects and thus Electron/ Tauri projects
- Any text editor/ IDE to write code in

## Hardware Requirements

Electron has no official requirements, though given that its base is Chromium, the specifications should be similar:

### Windows

- Intel Pentium 4 processor or later
- 4 GB RAM is an estimate for what is the minimum for running an Electron app

### Mac

- 64-bit Intel processor
- 4 GB RAM

### Linux

- Intel Pentium 4 processor or later
- 4 GB RAM

### All

- Mouse to interact with buttons etc.
- Keyboard to type notes
- Monitor to see the program
- ~250 Mb disk space as the program shouldn't be too large in size - this would be much smaller if I were to use Tauri

See next: [Success Criteria](1.7-success_criteria.md)
