# 3.1.2 - Overview of the System's Processes

> _A detailed overview of all components described in the_ [hierarchy chart](./3.1.1-decomposition.md)

## Login

The Login page is fairly simple, consisting of 3 real sub-components: Entry Fields, Sign-Up/ Login Buttons, and Storage/ Retrieval Database.

The entry fields will be `username`/`email` and `password`, allowing the user to log in with unique credentials - these then need to be submitted with a `log in` button, however if the user does not have an account, they can follow the `sign up` button to take them to the Signup page.

The Database side will cover storing and retrieving data about the user - this data will be the user's credentials, enabling valid users to be grants entry.

## Signup

The Signup page is very similar to the Login, with its main differences being extra entry fields as the user must enter a username, email, password, and re-entry of that password. The two buttons implemented will then be a `create account` button to create a new account, and a `back` button to take the user back to the Login page.

In this section, the Database will be responsible checking if the details entered are unique and valid, and if so will create a new entry for the user.

## Sidebar

The Sidebar is a portion of the screen dedicated to two main features: the File Tree, and the Toolbar.

The File Tree will be a dynamic tree representation of all the files/ folders within the user's chosen source directory. Folders will be collapsible/ expandable, and clicking on a file will open it in the Text Editor. The only files displayed will be files with the `.md` (markdown) extension, so as to abstract other unnecessary files away from the user, as well as reducing the range of possible errors caused by having files of other types available to the user.

The Toolbar is then a set of button icons which perform a range of functionality - the Settings button will open the settings page, the Home button will return the user to the Home page, the 'plus' icon will create a new file and the 'file with a plus' icon will add a new folder to the directory. This will be located either above or below the File Tree.

## Settings

The Settings area will have four main subsections: Appearance, Account, Files, and Help.

Appearance covers anything to do with the aesthetics/ visual qualities of the app. This includes theming, in which the user can either select a pre-made theme, or build their own.

The Account section addresses the user's credentials, allowing the user to view, and in some cases change their details if they so choose.

Files is about anything to do with how the app interacts with the user's file system. Here, the user can select a chosen source directory for their markdown files to be stored in. They can also select from any number of Networks - these are just different source directories that the user can switch between if they so choose.

Help is a place to go if the user is having any issues - this will consist of tutorials to help the user, and potentially have a submission box for feedback/ questions.

This should always be accessible, both by a button and a keyboard shortcut (`cmd`/`ctrl`+`,`) to maximise **usability**.

## Home

Home is the main area the user will reside in, containing: the Welcome/ Getting Started view, and the Network.

The Welcome/ Getting Started view will be a one-time pop-up for the user's first time logging in, giving helpful guidance/ tips, and making them feel comfortable/ accommodated for by the app.

The Network is the interactive, animated representation of the user's notes. This will be a canvas element filling the screen with nodes, and links between them. There are two options for the Network - View mode and Edit mode:

- **View mode** is the mode in which the user can move the nodes around with their mouse, and left click on a node to open it in the Text Editor. No direct changes can be made to the connections between the nodes.
- **Edit mode** allows the user to manipulate the connections between the nodes (this may be done by dragging connections from one node to the other to create a connection, and clicking on a connection to remove it), and create/ delete nodes quickly and easily:
  - _Linking_ is an action the user can perform to connect two previously unlinked nodes
  - _Unlinking_ the opposing action to linking, allowing the user to break the connection between two connected nodes

Nodes represent the notes taken by the user; each node is an interactive icon in the canvas that symbolises one of the markdown files in the Sidebar.

Tags can then be given to a node (this is done within the Text Editor) - these are used to give more meaning to each note by categorising them based on their contents, _e.g. a note written on a maths lecture could be given the `maths` tag. If it was also relevant to physics, it could be given a further `physics` tag as well_.

## Text Editor

The Text Editor is where the user will actually write their notes. This is broken down into: Title Area, Tags and Text Area.

The Title Area is at the top of the page - this determines the name of the file and can be edited by the user, _e.g. if the file name was `this is a note.md`, that would be reflected in the Title section as "this is a note"_.

The Tags section is located just beneath the Title Area, and is where the user can add/ delete tags for that specific note.

The Text Area fills the remaining portion of the screen. This is where the contents of the chosen markdown file are displayed - this can be edited live, and will be rendered as markdown in-place. Depending on what existing libraries can do in terms of rendering, this may have to be rendered to the side, along with the raw text.

See next [Interface Designs](./3.1.3-interface_designs.md)
