# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Improvements

> _Covering how the app should be maintained and extended if given more time_

## Current problems to be fixed

There are several - mostly small - issues with NodePad that would need addressing in the future before being released to the public:

- The user should be able to create, rename and delete files and folders, whereas currently the user can only create and rename files.
- There is a slight issue with the light colour scheme to do with colouration of some elements.
- The app would also feel more complete if there was a way to add and delete nodes, instead of only being able to do so in the sidebar.
- There should be a wider range of keyboard shortcuts the user can access to speed up workflow and **usability** - some research into commonly used keyboard shortcuts into the future would aid in producing shortcuts that are the most intuitive and natural to the user, as they would likely have used the same shortcuts in the past (_e.g. `cmd`/`ctrl`+`s` is almost exclusively used for saving in apps everywhere on the market_)

These are all issues that just need a little more time to complete, and wouldn't be too difficult to achieve on my own.

## Maintenance + the Future of NodePad

Due to the time constraints I was under, the final product I produced could have been released to the public for commercial/ personal use. This would bring potential for large upgrades in the future, which would be the result of addressing the below limitations of the current app:

| Limitation                                                                            | Solution/ Upgrade                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| The account feature has little to no actual meaning right now                         | A non-local database for storing user credentials allowing them to log in online AND/ OR a verification email sent to the user to confirm access |
| It may be tedious to select a root directory for different sets of notes all the time | Cloud storage of files all accessible from one place                                                                                             |
| Current themes may not be what the user is looking for/ likes                         | Custom theming/ allowing users to completely customise their own app with CSS                                                                    |
| Lack of speed performing tasks                                                        | The introduction of many more keyboard shortcuts                                                                                                 |
| Not easy/ quick to find files in the network                                          | An expansive and advanced search, similar to the fuzzy find search algorithm I considered implementing at the start                              |

I'd also like to implement all the features I set out to implement at the start.

If the app was available to the public, an technician would have to monitor and keep up to date the following:

- Database - it's vital the database is up-to-date, as simplified as possible, and as secure as possible. This is sensitive data being stored, and so must be kept safe by law under the Data Protection Act. It would also have to be made as efficient and flexible as possible if upscaling the amount of data being entered into it massively. Additionally, my current database is very small and would end up becoming much more complex, and so would need to be better managed.
- Validation - now available to the public, users with malicious intent could try to exploit the app. There must be even more measures in place than I have now to ensure there is no way a bad actor could infiltrate the system via an insecure input, and so all inputs must be thoroughly checked and more tests run.

The codebase would also be run through multiple developers/ peers, as peer reviewing can be a very effective method in tracking down insecurities and bugs. This extends to clients, and I could gain more stakeholders by launching an alpha for a select number of people to try, stress test and give feedback on.

## Usability Enhancements

Additional improvements to usability given time would be:

- Changing the login system - it may not even be necessary, as suggested by James when asked about the usability of the app in [the evaluation](./4.2-evaluation.md)
- Allowing files and folders to be added, renamed, and deleted, not just allowing the adding and renaming of files
- The search feature, talked about before, would greatly improve workflow
- Using a faster language like rust could make the speed of the app much faster, though in certain places that wouldn't be very noticeable

These would likely require me to expand to have other developers working on the project as well, especially if rebuilding the app in a different language, or using cloud storage.

See next: [Final Reflection](./4.4-final_reflection.md)
