## Interview(s)

The first interview for this iteration will take place with James on //2024. Some broad topics of discussion I plan on including within my questions are:

-

### Transcript of interview (//2024)

**Key:**

- _S_ - Sam (me)
- J - James

_S:_

J:

_S: Any other comments about the app, positive or negative?_

J: I enjoy using the text editor to write, though not being able to save is an obvious negative. Also, I find that the network is still quite limiting in its current state - the edges of the screen still have a rendering bug and I would enjoy there being some form of collision detection and physics simulation to really make the app feel more exciting and interactive. However, I do like using the app, and can see myself using it once a more finalised version is available.

## Summary

> _What have I learnt from researching similar products and interviewing my client(s)?_

- The app is still far from finished - in a lot of places it is still bare bones, buggy or incomplete.
- Customisation is still a key aspect my stakeholders would like to see in the app - more customisation will include features such as users being able to choose a profile picture for their account. This may require a database to implement smoothly, though may be possible just locally for early versions of the app.
- Though I've put a lot of time into bettering the Network, more time is still necessary just to get it finished to an acceptable standard, and even more time if I want to meet the wants of the stakeholder, as well as needs.

From this I now know I should work on...

See next: [Evaluation](2.2.5-evaluation.md)
